Virtual (VSQL) Squad Leader Developmental History – April, 2005


Remote Play for SQUAD LEADER (SQL) emerged shortly after the release of 
The game title by the Avalon Hill Game Company (TAHGC) in 1977.  Initially 
this was conducted by regular postal mail (PBM) and evolved as technology 
allowed to Play by Phone (PBP), Play by text Electronic Mail (PBEM); Play by 
Graphics (PBG) using a shared drawing computer application and editable map 
file, Play by Browser (PBB) where a current game map is posted on a website.  
As of the mid-1990’s, Advanced Squad Leader (ASL) had developed into an 
independent branch of the boardgaming community. Similar to its routs in the 
PREASL AKA SQUAD LEADER series (which included CROSS OF IRON 
(COI), CRESCENDO OF DOOM (COD), GI: ANVIL OF VICTORY (GIA)), 
ASL brought WWII small unit combat to the Boardgame tabletop.  SQL retains a 
following due to its inherent playability and turn-based play more suited to 
gamers seeking to play remotely in distinct increments of time.  ASL greatly 
expanded the realism and complexity at a loss of playability.  Its most distinctive 
characteristic from SQL is its high level of interactivity between the players.

To enable remote play in the most efficient manner, Rodney Kinney created a Sun 
Java application, Virtual Advanced Squad Leader (VASL) which featured real 
time Internet server play in addition to email capability.  The primary feature of 
Sun Java, platform independence, allowed players to interact regardless of their 
corresponding computer operating systems (any version of Windows, Macintosh, 
Unix, Linux) with have Java capability.

VASL was discovered by members of the SQL community, and used for remote 
PBEM and real-time server games of the SQL series.  For many, this was a 
frustrating conversion, which required counter substitution, counter labeling, and 
other efforts to make an ASL system work for SQL.  An example of this is the 
vehicle outlines, which do not have meaning in the ASL system, but do have 
impact in SQL LOS and other capabilities.

Around 1999, several SQL players worked independently (Tom Leete, Ian 
McDowall, Bill Thomson) culling the VASL 6K+image set to represent those 
needed for SQL play.  At the same time, Rodney Kinney was approached to make 
a specific VSQL application for SQL play.  Squad Leader Academy (SQLA), a 
subset of Wargame Academy (WGA) organized a project management approach 
to the creation of VSQL by surveying the members of the Squad Leader Email 
List (SLLIST), the SQLA player database, and other VASL users for SQL.  The 
results of the 2/10/2000 survey, focusing on what capabilities the VSQL 
application should have, was reviewed jointly with Rodney as to the suggestion’s 
merits, values, and effort required.

Most likely driven by other gamer’s similar requests for other game titles, Rodney 
responded with the creation of the VASSAL engine, which allows others to 
configure maps, counter sets, charts and other custom items to create specific 
game title ‘Modules’ for the VASSAL engine.  SQLA defined and created all the 
images and elements necessary for the VSQL module.  An alpha playtest version 
of the early VASSAL engine and VSQL module was organized in 9/08/2001 and 
subsequently aborted as the development and lack of capabilities of both the 
VASSAL engine and VSQL module were not yet mature to enable effective play.  
Additionally, the VSQL expectation was for a stand-alone application similar to 
VASL3.02 rather then the new operation requirements of the VASSAL engine.

Further Development of both VASSAL and VSQL resulted in VSQL version 1.85 
(Jeff Thorpe, Bill Thomson), resulting in a Beta Test event (2/14/2003) which 
recruited 10 VSQL members for trial.  At this time, the infusion of a parallel 
effort by Jay Yanek (module redesign) and complete set of hand painted counter 
art counters (Dennis Jorgenson) resulted in a ‘Final’ version of VSQL for SQL 
play in version 2.0.3. Several of the features incorporated in 1.85 were lost in this 
parallel effort.

Maintaining the momentum of Jay and Dennis, the resources of SQLA were 
assimilated to create the COI capable version of VSQL to be released as VSQL 
version 2.5.  With the additional constant input of prolific VSQL players (Pete 
Pollard, Scott Powers, and Alan Yngve), VSQL 2.5 quickly went through final 
customization and Playtest trial (July 2003) resulting in its release in time for 
demonstration at the World Boardgame Championships Squad Leader tournament 
(8/3/03; Baltimore Maryland) and the Squad Leader Academy PBEM CROSS OF 
IRON event to being September, 2003.

VSQL 3.0 has been released as the "last and final" version.  VASSAL has gone
through significant changes, and trying to keep the VSQL module compatable has
been difficult.  Through the efforts of Brent Easton and his programming, in
consultation of the v3.0 team (Bronson Barnhart, David Carter, Dennis Jorgenson,
Timothy St. Jean, Bill Skulley, Bill Thomson, Jay Yanek, Alan Yngve), this version
of VSQL is released with a stand-alone version of VASSAL (version 1.9.9) which
will stabilize the module.  This new module is backward compatable, as well as
has been modified to readily accept upcoming expansions for COD and GIA.

Similar to George Orwell’s ANIMIAL FARM, all contributors efforts are greatly 
appreciated; however, the extended contributions of time and efforts of some key 
individuals are more appreciated than others.  This is especially evident of 
Rodney Kinney who made this all possible.  As Rodney’s investment in the initial 
creation of the maintenance of the VASSAL engine has been done with no 
monetary compensation, Squad Leader Academy will direct any contributions to 
Rodney in appreciation.

The project team wishes to thank all involved in this VSQL development, which 
spanned five years to date. 

Bronson Barnhart, John Blazel, Frank Bradshaw, Russ Butler, David Carter,
Alain Chabot, Lars Clausen, Andrew Cowdery, Jason Coyle, Tim Delong, Andy Dupras, Brent Easton, Chris Edwards, John Fermendzin, Brian Gagnon, Jon Grantham, Dennis Jurgenson, Rodney Kinney, Marc Lammers, Dan Leader, Thomas Leete, Ian McDowall, Eric Pass, Pete Pollard, Scott Powers, Jason Russ,
Timothy St. Jean, Bill Skulley, Chris Stewart, Eric Stranger, Curtis Teeters,
Joe Thomas, Jeff Thorpe, David VanBronkhorst, Jay White, Jay Yanek,
and Alan Yngve.

Bill Thomson and Jay Yanek 
Squad Leader Academy 
VSQL Project Managers 
April, 2005
