USING THE INTERNET DIE ROLLER

VSQL has an Internet Die Roller built-in. This allows you to request multiple 
rolls from an independent (Shadowdice Dice Roller) dice rolling server and 
have the results of the die rolls emailed to both yourself and your opponent.

The results of the rolls are automatically displayed in the Chat Window and 
will be recorded into an open logfile. There is no need to wait for the email 
to return before continuing with your turn. Your opponent can check the 
emailed result file against the logfile at their leisure.

Preference Configuration
------------------------
Before using the Internet Die Roller, you will need to setup your Die 
Roller preferences. From the main VSQL menu bar, select 'Edit Preferences' 
and click on the 'Internet Die Roller' tab.

First, make sure the 'Email results?' and 'Put multiple rolls into single 
email' boxes are both checked. 

Next, type your email address into the 'Primary Email' field.

Next step is to populate your address book. Add the email addresses of your 
regular opponents one by one to the address book by typing the address into 
the blank area under the 'Address Book' heading, and then pressing the 'Add' 
key. You can use addresses like 'Bob <b.smith@there.net>', only the part 
between the <> brackets will be used to send emails. You can also enter a 
list of email addresses separated by comma's to have emails sent to a number 
people at once.

Finally, select your current opponents email address from the pull-down menu
labelled 'Secondary email'. 


Using the Roller
----------------
Click on the Internet Die Roller Icon, or press the F6 function key to bring 
up the multiroll dialog box. You can see the currently selected opponents 
email address at the top of the box. If this is incorrect, use the 'Change 
Email Address' button at the bottom right of the dialog box and select the 
correct email address from the drop-down list.

Type in a description for the set of rolls you are requesting (e.g.
'BE02-GT1-RallyPh'). This description will appear as the subject of the 
emails sent.

You can request up to 10 seperate die rolls in one email. To activate a Die 
Roll line, click on one of the buttons numbered 1-10 in the 'Roll' column.
You can then fill in the details of that roll:

 Details - A description that will appear in the email and in the VSQL Chat Window.
 nDice	 - Number of dice to roll (default 2)
 nSides  - Number of sides on each die (default 6)
 add     - A number to add to the rolled total (default 0)
 Total   - Click to display the rolled total, not the individual die rolls.

When you are ready, click the 'Roll' button to submit the roll request. The 
results of you roll(s) will be emailed to yourself and your opponent and 
will be echoed automatically into the Chat Window. This process usually 
takes a few seconds only.

Problems
--------
Very occasionally, the Shadowdice Dice Server will be down. In this case 
you will receive a message 'Internet Dice Roll Attempt Failed' echoed to 
the Chat Window.