Quick Start & New Features
For "technical" help:  vsql@wargameacademy.org


Welcome to VSQL 3.0.  We're excited to offer this updated module to you, and 
hope you'll enjoy the work that the VSQL team has put into making the VSQL 
experience better.  To learn more about the team, click on the "credits" tab in 
the VSQL "Help" menu.  We've tried to document many of the new items in the 
module here, but we strongly encourage you to "explore".

-- Stand-alone VSQL
VSQL is now available in a stand-alone non-networked version packaged with matching 
VASSAL version 1.9.9. VSQL can be run either using the Webstart facility (which will 
remain fixed at running vassal 1.9.9), or via the stand-alone package. VSQL save
files are not compatible between version 1.9.9 and version 2.0 of VASSAL.

There are three run files in the VSQL directory that can be used to run stand-alone
VSQL:

 runVSQL.jar - Run VASSAL/VSQL with default memory allocation (usually 96Mb).
 vsql.bat    - Run VASSAL/VSQL on Windows with 256Mb Memory allocation.
 vsql.sh     - Run VASSAL/VSQL on Unix/Linux with 256Mb Memory allocation.

-- Re-worked Concealment.
Concealed counters can no longer be identified or modified by your opponent.

-- Improved Scenario Info window.
The remaining ASL specific fields have been removed and the window re-organised
for better play. The window opend to a decent size by default and the two note 
windoes are now on separate tabs. The text used is a monospace font so the 
board display diagrams now look correct.

-- Movement Trail for Infantry and Vehicles.
All vehicle and infantry units now remember their recent movement history. Use the
'Ctrl-T' command to toggle the display of the movement history. Movement trails of
unselected units are displayed semi-transparent. For selected units, the trail is 
displayed in bold and for vehicles shows the CA of the vehicle when it entered the hex.
For Leader counters, it displays the number of units in the stack including the leader
that moved into the hex. Movement Trails are cleared and turned off when units are
marked as 'Not Moved'

-- Changed bunkers to act like concealment counters.
Counters moved under a bunker countre will not automatically become concealed. 
NOTE - This is to prevent your opponent from inspecting the bunker contents, as
per the rules. Normal fire rules apply as per SL Rule 56.

-- Changed Track counter to 'Does not Stack'.
There was a proble with adding Track counters to games while replaying a logfile. The 
added Track counters interfered with the movement of units by the logfile. This has
been solved by changing Track units to 'Does Not Stac' units. This causes the Track counters
to drop to bottom of a stack, so Track counters will rotate 45 degrees automatically w
hen dropped onto board to ensure visiblity.

-- Invisible counters are now 'Non-moveable'.
This means that Invisible counteres will not stack with visible counters and be carried 
along by stacks moving over them.

-- Units stacked under 'Non-moveable' counters are also 'Non-moveable'.
For example, moving units over the top of units stacked under a bunker or 2nd Level 
counter will no longer merge and move with the units underneath.

-- Add Smoke options to Remove All menu.
New options on the 'Remove All' menu to remove different varieties of smoke.

-- Included 'lasso' facility to select multiple counters.
Bought forward from VASSAL 2.0, this allows you to draw a rectangle on the map and select
a group of units at once, enabling you to apply the same keyboard command to them all at
once. 

-- Delay setting for Mouseover viewer moved to General Preferences.
Each player can now set their own Mouseover popup viewer delay.

-- Added F6 as Hotkey for Internet Dice Roller

-- Added 'DOES NOT MOVE' as ctrl-I Info comment to all Non-moveable markers

-- Ctrl-I info display automatically turns off when counter unselected.

-- Removed 'Nationality Colors' tab from preferences.

-- PLC counters moved from main module to extension vsql_plc.mdx
To allow future expansion. The vsql_plc.mdx extension file will be distributed pre-installed
in the stand-alone version of VSQL. Webstart users will need to download and install the file
separately. New Generic American, Russian and German PLC counters now available that will 
conceal as their correct Nationality color.

-- Online help updated.
You're reading it!
